GIANNOUMIS.md, before:

# Literature by George Anthony Giannoumis
 
[Kilde](https://www.oslomet.no/om/ansatt/gagian/)|[Contact](@george.a.giannoumis@oslomet.no)


* [Presentation on September 8th, 2020](#presentation-on-september-8th-2020)
* [Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web)

## General

[__Giannoumis et al. (2017)__](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web) discuss the interaction between laws and policies to ensure web accessibility and technological protection measures (TPM) to protect copyrights and highlight the importance of the Marrakesh Treaty to bridge this gap.

## Presentation on September 8th, 2020

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis)

Digital divide.
Sustainable development goals of UD.
Principles of UD for the information society:
* Social equality
* Human diversity
* Accessibility and usability
* Participatory process
    * individual
    * environment
    * activity

## Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web

Giannoumis et al. (2017) explore the interaction between laws and plicis to preserve and promote the use of technological protection measures (TPMs) to protect copyrighted digital content, and laws and plicies aiming at ensuring web accessbility for people with sensory and cognitive disabilities. They emphasize that the Marrakesh Treaty bridges the gap between accessibility requirements and copyright demands by obligating states to ensure that TPMS do not prevent individuals with print disabilities to create, use and share accessible formats withou a license form the copyright owner.

## Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Kilde](https://brill.com/view/journals/hrlr/8/1/article-p38_38.xml)

Universal design in the information society shal promote equal access and use of technology in three ways:
1. By accounting for human diversity.
2. By eliminating barriers to accessbiility and usability.
3. By augmenting participation.

Commit message:

Added remaining articles by Giannoumis. - Spell check.

GIANNOUMIS.md, after:

# Literature by George Anthony Giannoumis
 
[Kilde](https://www.oslomet.no/om/ansatt/gagian/)|[Contact](@george.a.giannoumis@oslomet.no)


* [Presentation on September 8th, 2020](#presentation-on-september-8th-2020)
* [Giannoumis (2019b) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States](#giannoumis-2019b-implementing-web-accessibility-policy-case-studies-of-the-united-kingdom-norway-and-the-united-states)
* [Giannoumis & Stein (2019b) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens](#giannoumis-stein-2019b-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens)
* [Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web)

## General

[__Giannoumis et al. (2019b)__](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web) did something.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2019a)__](#giannoumis-stein-2019b-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens) did something else.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2017)__](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web) discuss the interaction between laws and policies to ensure web accessibility and technological protection measures (TPM) to protect copyrights and highlight the importance of the Marrakesh Treaty to bridge this gap.

## Presentation on September 8th, 2020

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis)

Digital divide.
Sustainable development goals of UD.
Principles of UD for the information society:
* Social equality
* Human diversity
* Accessibility and usability
* Participatory process
    * individual
    * environment
    * activity

## Giannoumis (2019b) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis)

## Giannoumis & Stein (2019b) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis)

## Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis)

Giannoumis et al. (2017) explore the interaction between laws and plicis to preserve and promote the use of technological protection measures (TPMs) to protect copyrighted digital content, and laws and plicies aiming at ensuring web accessbility for people with sensory and cognitive disabilities. They emphasize that the Marrakesh Treaty bridges the gap between accessibility requirements and copyright demands by obligating states to ensure that TPMS do not prevent individuals with print disabilities to create, use and share accessible formats withou a license form the copyright owner.

## Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#literature-by-george-anthony-giannoumis) |
[Kilde](https://brill.com/view/journals/hrlr/8/1/article-p38_38.xml)

Universal design in the information society shal promote equal access and use of technology in three ways:
1. By accounting for human diversity.
2. By eliminating barriers to accessbiility and usability.
3. By augmenting participation.
