UU-BENF.md, before:

# Tekster om fordeler av universell utforming (UU-BENF)

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som utforsker generelle fordeler av universell utforming:
* [Schmutz et al. (2019) Easy-to-read language in disability-friendly web sites: Effects on nondisabled users](#schmutz-et-al-2019-easy-to-read-language-in-disability-friendly-web-sites-effects-on-nondisabled-users)
* [Schmutz et al. (2018) Effects of accessible website design on nondisabled users: age and device as moderating factors](#schmutz-et-al-2018-effects-of-accessible-website-design-on-nondisabled-users-age-and-device-as-moderating-factors)
* [Schmutz et al. (2017) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: A Comparative Study of Nondisabled Users and Users With Visual Impairments](#schmutz-et-al-2017-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-a-comparative-study-of-nondisabled-users-and-users-with-visual-impairments)
* [Schmutz et al. (2016) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: Would They also provide Benefits to Nondisabled Users?](#schmutz-et-al-2016-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-would-they-also-provide-benefits-to-nondisabled-users)
* [Fuglerud et al. (2015) Cost-benefit analysis of universal design](#fuglerud-et-al-2015-cost-benefit-analysis-of-universal-design)

## General

[__Schmutz et al. (2019)__](#schmutz-et-al-2019-easy-to-read-language-in-disability-friendly-web-sites-effects-on-nondisabled-users) analyzed the influence of easy-to-read language (ETRL) on non-disabled users. They showed positive effects of ETRL on performance but negative effects on satisfaction ratings.
[__Schmutz et al. (2018)__](#schmutz-et-al-2018-effects-of-accessible-website-design-on-nondisabled-users-age-and-device-as-moderating-factors) show that accessible website design benefits (higher task completion rate, faster task completion time and higher satisfaction) nondisabled users in all age ranges (young vs old), and among multiple devices (tablet vs laptop).
[__Schmutz et al. (2017)__](#schmutz-et-al-2017-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-a-comparative-study-of-nondisabled-users-and-users-with-visual-impairments) analyzed the benefits of higher accessibility of websites for people with and without impairments. They showed that higher conformancer to Web accessibility guidelines resulted in increased performance and more positive user ratings for both user groups alike. They emphasize that there is no interaction between user group and accessibility level.
[__Schmutz et al. (2016)__](#schmutz-et-al-2016-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-would-they-also-provide-benefits-to-nondisabled-users) show that following high accessibility standards will lead to better performance (faster task completion time and higher task completion rate) and improved user ratings (within perceived usability, aesthetics, workload, and trusworthiness) in non-disabled users.
[__Fuglerud et al. (2015)__](#fuglerud-et-al-2015-cost-benefit-analysis-of-universal-design)review literature that show the costs and benefits of UD, and name methods on how to quantify and assess these parameters (user-centered design, guidelines, expert evaluation, usability testing).
They present examples and case studies of business strategy, organization structure and processes, UD methods and approaches, and outcomes and effects.
Finlay the propose a methodology to implement a cost-benefit analysis of UD.

## Schmutz et al. (2019) Easy-to-read language in disability-friendly web sites: Effects on nondisabled users

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2019) analyzed effects of easy-to-read language [DE] (ETRL) on performance measures, subjective user reactions and long-term information retention of non-disabled people. They showed that ETRL can lead to some increased performance measures (content recognition, increased true/false statements) but increased reading time, at the same time as it can decrease satisfaction ratings (text linking, intention to revisit the website, call to action).

## Schmutz et al. (2018) Effects of accessible website design on nondisabled users: age and device as moderating factors

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2018) show the affect of accessible website design by analyzing completion time, completion rate and satisfaction rating in a '2x2x2' comparison that has web siste accessibility (high vs low accessibility), age (old vs young), and device type (laptop vs table) as independent variables. They showed that higher accessibility increased task completion rate, task completion time and satisfaction ratings of nondisabled users. At the same time, they showed that accessibility benefits did not depend on the age, but that the benefits were greater when participants used a tablet rather than using a laptop. Finally, they showed than younger participants preferred the presentation on the tablet, whereas older people preferred the laptop.

## Schmutz et al. (2017) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: A Comparative Study of Nondisabled Users and Users With Visual Impairments

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2017) showed the effect of websites with very low, low and high accessibility on people with and without visual impairment by analyzing performance measures (task completion time and task completion rate) and multiple subjective measures (perceived usability, positive and negative affect, aesthetics, workload and user experience). 
They showed that both user groups benefit from higher accessibility levels, emphasizing that non-disabled people would benefit from higher accessibility levels to the same extend as disabled people. 
They argue that the underlying needs of disabled an non-disabled people are very similar, and that there is a considerade overlap between WCAG 2.0 guidelines and usability recommendations.
They argue that high accessibility can lead to economic benefit as it can help keeping users on a website at the same time as it might increase branding.

```
Method: 
Participants from two matched samples, comprising 55 participants with visual impairments and 55 without impairments, took part in a synchronous remote testing of a Web site. 
Each participant was randomly assigned to one of three Web sites, which differed in the level of accessibility (very low, low, and high) according to recommendations of the well-established Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 (WCAG 2.0). 
Performance (i.e., task completion rate and task completion time) and a range of subjective variables (i.e., perceived usability, positive affect, negative affect, perceived aesthetics, perceived workload, and user experience) were measured.
```

```
Results: 
Higher conformance to Web accessibility guidelines resulted in increased performance and more positive user ratings (e.g., perceived usability or aesthetics) for both user groups. 
There was no interaction
```

## Schmutz et al. (2016) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: Would They also provide Benefits to Nondisabled Users?

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

```
Method: 
Sixty-one nondisabled participants used one of three Web sites differing in levels of accessibility (high, low, and very low). 
Accessibility levels were determined by following established Web accessibility guidelines (WCAG 2.0). 
A broad methodological approach was used, including performance measures (e.g., task completion time) and user ratings (e.g., perceived usability).
```

```
Results: 
A high level of Web accessibility led to better performance (i.e., task completion time and task completion rate) than low or very low accessibility. 
Likewise, high Web accessibility improved user ratings (i.e., perceived usability, aesthetics, workload, and trustworthiness) compared to low or very low Web accessibility. 
There was no difference between the very low and low Web accessibility conditions for any of the outcome measures.
```

## Fuglerud et al. (2015) Cost-benefit analysis of universal design

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Fuglerud et al. (2015) review previous literature related to UD and investigate methodology on how to assess UD and its effects. 
They point out that UD is both a design goal (product, solutions, etc. should be accessible and usable), and a design process based on a user-centered approach that includes people with disabilities.
They review literature that investigate attitudes to assumptions and knowledge about UD, that provide assessment and cost-benefit analysis related to UD, and that show case studies and good practice examples.
They propose a framework to document and assess effects of UD containing the following steps:
1. Business strategy (management commitments, collaboration, standardization supports, etc.).
2. Organization structure & process (organizational units, positions, infrastructure, etc.).
3. UD methods and approaches (user-centered design, accessibility standards and guidelines, access. and usa. assessment including technical testing, AT, expert evaluation, user testing)
4. Outcomes and effects.
   1. Improved products and services,
   2. Market and customer satisfaction (increased marketability, increase success rate, user satisfaction, ease of use, and ease of leaning and trust. etc.)
   3. Community relations and reputation (raise brand awareness),
   4. Internal processes and employees (maximize employee engagement and productivity, improve routines, increase competence),
   5. Financial effects (increase revenue, improve ROI, reduce costs, increase cost efficiency),
   6. Avoid legal action/cost/damage costs.
   
Finally, they propose a procedure for cost-benefit analysis of UD
1. Planning the UD process
2. Establish analysis parameters.
3. Calculate the costs of implementing the UD plan.
4. Select relevant benefit categories.
5. Quantify and estimate benefits.
6. Compare costs to benefits.

Commit message:

Added navigation for Difi (2014) Digitalisering for alle? Ei undersøking om universell utforming av IKT i private og offentlege verksemder; Difi (2009) Konsekvensvurdering av universell utforming på offentlige virksomheters nettsider; Huber and Vitouch (2008) Usability and Accessibility on the Internet: Effects of Accessible Web Design on Usability; Miljødepartementet (2007) Universell Utforming; and Marcus (2005) User Interface Design's Return on Investment: Examples and Statistics

UU-BENF.md, after:

# Tekster om fordeler av universell utforming (UU-BENF)

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som utforsker generelle fordeler av universell utforming:
* [Schmutz et al. (2019) Easy-to-read language in disability-friendly web sites: Effects on nondisabled users](#schmutz-et-al-2019-easy-to-read-language-in-disability-friendly-web-sites-effects-on-nondisabled-users)
* [Schmutz et al. (2018) Effects of accessible website design on nondisabled users: age and device as moderating factors](#schmutz-et-al-2018-effects-of-accessible-website-design-on-nondisabled-users-age-and-device-as-moderating-factors)
* [Schmutz et al. (2017) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: A Comparative Study of Nondisabled Users and Users With Visual Impairments](#schmutz-et-al-2017-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-a-comparative-study-of-nondisabled-users-and-users-with-visual-impairments)
* [Schmutz et al. (2016) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: Would They also provide Benefits to Nondisabled Users?](#schmutz-et-al-2016-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-would-they-also-provide-benefits-to-nondisabled-users)
* [Fuglerud et al. (2015) Cost-benefit analysis of universal design](#fuglerud-et-al-2015-cost-benefit-analysis-of-universal-design)
* [Difi (2014) Digitalisering for alle? Ei undersøking om universell utforming av IKT i private og offentlege verksemder](#difi-2014-digitalisering-for-alle-ei-undersøking-om-universell-utforming-av-ikt-i-private-og-offentlege-verksemder)
* [Difi (2009) Konsekvensvurdering av universell utforming på offentlige virksomheters nettsider](#difi-2009-konsekvensvurdering-av-universell-utforming-på-offentlige-virksomheters-nettsider)
* [Huber and Vitouch (2008) Usability and Accessibility on the Internet: Effects of Accessible Web Design on Usability](#huber-and-vitouch-2008-usability-and-accessibility-on-the-internet-effects-of-accessible-web-design-on-usability)
* [Marcus (2005) User Interface Design's Return on Investment: Examples and Statistics](#marcus-2005-user-interface-design-s-return-on-investment-examples-and-statistics)

## General

[__Schmutz et al. (2019)__](#schmutz-et-al-2019-easy-to-read-language-in-disability-friendly-web-sites-effects-on-nondisabled-users) analyzed the influence of easy-to-read language (ETRL) on non-disabled users. They showed positive effects of ETRL on performance but negative effects on satisfaction ratings.
[__Schmutz et al. (2018)__](#schmutz-et-al-2018-effects-of-accessible-website-design-on-nondisabled-users-age-and-device-as-moderating-factors) show that accessible website design benefits (higher task completion rate, faster task completion time and higher satisfaction) nondisabled users in all age ranges (young vs old), and among multiple devices (tablet vs laptop).
[__Schmutz et al. (2017)__](#schmutz-et-al-2017-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-a-comparative-study-of-nondisabled-users-and-users-with-visual-impairments) analyzed the benefits of higher accessibility of websites for people with and without impairments. They showed that higher conformancer to Web accessibility guidelines resulted in increased performance and more positive user ratings for both user groups alike. They emphasize that there is no interaction between user group and accessibility level.
[__Schmutz et al. (2016)__](#schmutz-et-al-2016-implementing-recommendations-from-web-accessibility-guidelines-would-they-also-provide-benefits-to-nondisabled-users) show that following high accessibility standards will lead to better performance (faster task completion time and higher task completion rate) and improved user ratings (within perceived usability, aesthetics, workload, and trusworthiness) in non-disabled users.
[__Fuglerud et al. (2015)__](#fuglerud-et-al-2015-cost-benefit-analysis-of-universal-design) review literature that show the costs and benefits of UD, and name methods on how to quantify and assess these parameters (user-centered design, guidelines, expert evaluation, usability testing).
They present examples and case studies of business strategy, organization structure and processes, UD methods and approaches, and outcomes and effects.
Finally, they propose a methodology to implement a cost-benefit analysis of UD.  
[__Difi (2014)__](#difi-2014-digitalisering-for-alle-ei-undersøking-om-universell-utforming-av-ikt-i-private-og-offentlege-verksemder) did something.  
[__Difi (2009)__](#difi-2009-konsekvensvurdering-av-universell-utforming-på-offentlige-virksomheters-nettsider) did something.  
[__Huber and Vitouch (2008)__](#huber-and-vitouch-2008-usability-and-accessibility-on-the-internet-effects-of-accessible-web-design-on-usability) did something.  
[__Marcus (2005)__](#marcus-2005-user-interface-design-s-return-on-investment-examples-and-statistics) did something.  


## Schmutz et al. (2019) Easy-to-read language in disability-friendly web sites: Effects on nondisabled users

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2019) analyzed effects of easy-to-read language [DE] (ETRL) on performance measures, subjective user reactions and long-term information retention of non-disabled people. They showed that ETRL can lead to some increased performance measures (content recognition, increased true/false statements) but increased reading time, at the same time as it can decrease satisfaction ratings (text linking, intention to revisit the website, call to action).

## Schmutz et al. (2018) Effects of accessible website design on nondisabled users: age and device as moderating factors

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2018) show the affect of accessible website design by analyzing completion time, completion rate and satisfaction rating in a '2x2x2' comparison that has web siste accessibility (high vs low accessibility), age (old vs young), and device type (laptop vs table) as independent variables. They showed that higher accessibility increased task completion rate, task completion time and satisfaction ratings of nondisabled users. At the same time, they showed that accessibility benefits did not depend on the age, but that the benefits were greater when participants used a tablet rather than using a laptop. Finally, they showed than younger participants preferred the presentation on the tablet, whereas older people preferred the laptop.

## Schmutz et al. (2017) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: A Comparative Study of Nondisabled Users and Users With Visual Impairments

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Schmutz et al. (2017) showed the effect of websites with very low, low and high accessibility on people with and without visual impairment by analyzing performance measures (task completion time and task completion rate) and multiple subjective measures (perceived usability, positive and negative affect, aesthetics, workload and user experience). 
They showed that both user groups benefit from higher accessibility levels, emphasizing that non-disabled people would benefit from higher accessibility levels to the same extend as disabled people. 
They argue that the underlying needs of disabled an non-disabled people are very similar, and that there is a considerade overlap between WCAG 2.0 guidelines and usability recommendations.
They argue that high accessibility can lead to economic benefit as it can help keeping users on a website at the same time as it might increase branding.

```
Method: 
Participants from two matched samples, comprising 55 participants with visual impairments and 55 without impairments, took part in a synchronous remote testing of a Web site. 
Each participant was randomly assigned to one of three Web sites, which differed in the level of accessibility (very low, low, and high) according to recommendations of the well-established Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 (WCAG 2.0). 
Performance (i.e., task completion rate and task completion time) and a range of subjective variables (i.e., perceived usability, positive affect, negative affect, perceived aesthetics, perceived workload, and user experience) were measured.
```

```
Results: 
Higher conformance to Web accessibility guidelines resulted in increased performance and more positive user ratings (e.g., perceived usability or aesthetics) for both user groups. 
There was no interaction
```

## Schmutz et al. (2016) Implementing Recommendations From Web Accessibility Guidelines: Would They also provide Benefits to Nondisabled Users?

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

```
Method: 
Sixty-one nondisabled participants used one of three Web sites differing in levels of accessibility (high, low, and very low). 
Accessibility levels were determined by following established Web accessibility guidelines (WCAG 2.0). 
A broad methodological approach was used, including performance measures (e.g., task completion time) and user ratings (e.g., perceived usability).
```

```
Results: 
A high level of Web accessibility led to better performance (i.e., task completion time and task completion rate) than low or very low accessibility. 
Likewise, high Web accessibility improved user ratings (i.e., perceived usability, aesthetics, workload, and trustworthiness) compared to low or very low Web accessibility. 
There was no difference between the very low and low Web accessibility conditions for any of the outcome measures.
```

## Fuglerud et al. (2015) Cost-benefit analysis of universal design

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

Fuglerud et al. (2015) review previous literature related to UD and investigate methodology on how to assess UD and its effects. 
They point out that UD is both a design goal (product, solutions, etc. should be accessible and usable), and a design process based on a user-centered approach that includes people with disabilities.
They review literature that investigate attitudes to assumptions and knowledge about UD, that provide assessment and cost-benefit analysis related to UD, and that show case studies and good practice examples.
They propose a framework to document and assess effects of UD containing the following steps:
1. Business strategy (management commitments, collaboration, standardization supports, etc.).
2. Organization structure & process (organizational units, positions, infrastructure, etc.).
3. UD methods and approaches (user-centered design, accessibility standards and guidelines, access. and usa. assessment including technical testing, AT, expert evaluation, user testing)
4. Outcomes and effects.
   1. Improved products and services,
   2. Market and customer satisfaction (increased marketability, increase success rate, user satisfaction, ease of use, and ease of leaning and trust. etc.)
   3. Community relations and reputation (raise brand awareness),
   4. Internal processes and employees (maximize employee engagement and productivity, improve routines, increase competence),
   5. Financial effects (increase revenue, improve ROI, reduce costs, increase cost efficiency),
   6. Avoid legal action/cost/damage costs.
   
Finally, they propose a procedure for cost-benefit analysis of UD
1. Planning the UD process
2. Establish analysis parameters.
3. Calculate the costs of implementing the UD plan.
4. Select relevant benefit categories.
5. Quantify and estimate benefits.
6. Compare costs to benefits.

## Difi (2014) Digitalisering for alle? Ei undersøking om universell utforming av IKT i private og offentlege verksemder

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

## Difi (2009) Konsekvensvurdering av universell utforming på offentlige virksomheters nettsider

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

## Huber and Vitouch (2008) Usability and Accessibility on the Internet: Effects of Accessible Web Design on Usability

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)

## Marcus (2005) User Interface Design's Return on Investment: Examples and Statistics

[Up](#tekster-om-fordeler-av-universell-utforming-uu-benf)
