UU-FUBA.md, before:

# Tekster om funskjonsnedsettelser og barrierer

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som definerer, behandler, osv. funksjonsnedsettelser og barrierer som er hovedfokuset innen universell utforming:
  - [European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019) EN 301 549 v3.1.1. (2019-06): Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services](#european-telecommunications-standards-institute-etsi-2019-en-301-549-v311-2019-06-accessibility-requirements-for-ict-products-and-services)
  
# General

[__European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019)__](#european-telecommunications-standards-institute-etsi-2019-en-301-549-v311-2019-06-accessibility-requirements-for-ict-products-and-services) defines requirements for functional accessibility in ICT products and services that should be upheld in public procurement, providing test procedures and evaluation methodology.

### European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019) EN 301 549 v3.1.1. (2019-06): Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services

[Up](#tekster-om-funksjonsnedsettelser-og-barrierer) |
[Kilde](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/01.01.02_60/en_301549v010102p.pdf)

EN 301 549 defines requirements for functional accessibility in ICT products and services, providing test procedures and evaluation methodology.
This standard defines eleven functional performance statement that should be fulfilled to enable people to locate, identify and operate ICT functions regardless of physical, cognitive or sensory abilities, may they be permanent, temporary or situational:
1. Usage without vision
2. Usage with limited vision
3. Usage without perception of color
4. Usage without hearing
5. Usage with limited hearing
6. Usage without vocal capability
7. Usage with limited manipulation or strength
8. Usage with limited reach
9. Usage with limited reach
9. Minimize photosensitive seizure triggers
10. Usage with limited cognition
11. Privacy

Commit message:

Summarized and wrote short introductionary sentence for W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) (2020) Diverse Abilities and Barriers. - Updated navigation.

UU-FUBA.md, after:

# Tekster om funskjonsnedsettelser og barrierer

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som definerer, behandler, osv. funksjonsnedsettelser og barrierer som er hovedfokuset innen universell utforming:
  - [European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019) EN 301 549 v3.1.1 (2019-06): Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services](#european-telecommunications-standards-institute-etsi-2019-en-301-549-v311-2019-06-accessibility-requirements-for-ict-products-and-services)
  - [W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) (2020) Diverse Abilities and Barriers](#w3c-web-accessibility-initiative-wai-2020-diverse-abilities-and-barriers)
  
## General

[__European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019)__](#european-telecommunications-standards-institute-etsi-2019-en-301-549-v311-2019-06-accessibility-requirements-for-ict-products-and-services) defines requirements for functional accessibility in ICT products and services that should be upheld in public procurement, providing test procedures and evaluation methodology.
[__W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) (2020)__](#w3c-web-accessibility-initiative-wai-2020-diverse-abilities-and-barriers) explore functional diversity (age, intersectionality, health, changing, temporary, situational) and present functional disabilities and barriers that are the concern of usability and accessibility including auditory, cognitive, learning, and neurological, physical, speech and visual disabilities and barriers.

## European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) (2019) EN 301 549 v3.1.1 (2019-06): Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services

[Up](#tekster-om-funksjonsnedsettelser-og-barrierer) |
[Kilde](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/01.01.02_60/en_301549v010102p.pdf)

EN 301 549 defines requirements for functional accessibility in ICT products and services, providing test procedures and evaluation methodology.
This standard defines eleven functional performance statement that should be fulfilled to enable people to locate, identify and operate ICT functions regardless of physical, cognitive or sensory abilities, may they be permanent, temporary or situational:
1. Usage without vision
2. Usage with limited vision
3. Usage without perception of color
4. Usage without hearing
5. Usage with limited hearing
6. Usage without vocal capability
7. Usage with limited manipulation or strength
8. Usage with limited reach
9. Usage with limited reach
9. Minimize photosensitive seizure triggers
10. Usage with limited cognition
11. Privacy

## W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) (2020) Diverse Abilities and Barriers

[Up](#tekster-om-funksjonsnedsettelser-og-barrierer) |
[Kilde](https://www.w3.org/WAI/people-use-web/abilities-barriers/)

The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) (2020) explores the nature of functional diversity including age-related impairments, multiple disabilities, health conditions, changing abilities, temprorary impairments, and situational limitations.
Moreover, WAI names some of the functional disabilities and barriers that are a focus point of usability and accessibility including:
* auditory (deafness, hard of hearing),
* cognitive (attention, memory, social communication and interaction), learning, and neurological, 
* physical (amputation, rheumatism, arthritis, tremor and spasms),
* speech (stuttering, muteness),
* visual (blindness, color vision deficiencies, low vision).
