UU-STAT.md, before:

# Tekster om statistikk

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som inneholder statistikk rundt universell utforming og mennesker med nedsatt funksjonsevne:
* [__United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019)__ Disability: Prevalence and Impact - Syrian Arab Republic](#united-nations-high-commissioner-for-refugees-unhcr-2019-disability-prevalence-and-impact-syrian-arab-republic)
* [__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018)__ Americans with Disabilities: 2014](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2018-americans-with-disabilities-2014)
* [__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012)__ Americans with Disabilities: 2010](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2012-americans-with-disabilities-2010)
* [__World Health Organization (WHO) (2011)__ World report on disability](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)
* [__Loeb et al.__ (2008) Approaching the measurement of disability prevalence: The case of Zambia](#loeb-et-al-2008-approaching-the-measurement-of-disability-prevalence-the-case-of-zambia)
* [__Svalund (2004)__ Funksjonshemmede i Europa](#svalund-2004-funksjonshemmede-i-europa)

## General

[__United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019)__](#united-nations-high-commissioner-for-refugees-unhcr-2019-disability-prevalence-and-impact-syrian-arab-republic) measure the prevalence of people with disabilities (around 27%) in Syria by area, age group and population type.
[__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018)__](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2018-americans-with-disabilities-2014) indicate that  in 2014 about 27% of the population has some sort of disability, with 18% having a severe disability and 10% needing assistance. 
They subdivide disabilities according to categories of communication (seeing around 5%, hearing around 7%, and having their speech understood around 2%), physical problem (upper body around 12%, lower body around 18%), and mental around 10%.
They found that 53% have a disability in one domain only.
[__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012)__](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2012-americans-with-disabilities-2010) indicate that in 2010 about 19% of the population has some sort of disability, with 12% having a severe disability and 4% needing assistance. 
They subdivide disabilities according to categories of communication (around 6%, seeing around 3%, hearing around 3%, and having their speech understood around 1%), physical problem (upper body around 8%, lower body around 13%), and mental around 6%.
They found that 59% have a disability in one domain only.
[__World Health Organization (WHO) (2011)__](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability) (1) give a general introduction in definitions and scope related to disability.
They (2) give a general introduction in how to measure disability globally, and presents some estimates for the prevalence of disability.
Finally, they conclude that about 15% (WHS) / 19% (GBD) of the world population lives with disabilities.

[__Loeb et al.__ (2008)](#loeb-et-al-2008-approaching-the-measurement-of-disability-prevalence-the-case-of-zambia) did something.
[__Svalund (2004)__](#svalund-2004-funksjonshemmede-i-europa) did something.

## United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019) Disability: Prevalence and Impact - Syrian Arab Republic 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

UNHCR (2019) measure the prevalence of people with disabilities by area, age group and population type.
They show that about 27% of the population in Syria live with disabilities compared to 15% of the world population.
They argue that disability is more present in developing and crisis-affected countries.

They show that the percentage of people with disabilities increases significantly from 40 years on.
(They show individual age groups in five-year intervals.)
They found that women were generally slightly less likely to have a disability than men.
They found that people with disabilities are more likely to be married or widowed than people without disabilities.
Women are especially likely to be widowed.

They found prevalence of different types of disabilities following the categorization proposed by the Washington Group (2017): M (17%), V (ca. 13%), S-C (ca. 8%), H (ca. 7%), Cog (ca. 4%), Com (ca. 4%).

## The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018) Americans with Disabilities: 2014 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018) indicate that in 2014 the percentage of people with disabilities to about 27 %, 18% with severe disability and 10% needing assistance. 
They show that disabilities increase with age:
Until 18 yrs. only 17%, from 18 yrs. 30%, from 65 yrs. 58%, and from 75 yrs. 70% have disabilities.
They show differences in disability (any) prevalence depending on race:
Blacks (around 35%), non-Hispanic Whites (32%), Hispanics (25%) and Asians (20%).
The same ranking is valid for severe disability and needs assistance.

Prevalence depending for different domains:
* communication domain (18 yrs.+ / 65 yrs.+):
   * difficulties seeing (5%/9%)
   * difficulties hearing (7%/20%)
   * difficulties having their speech understood (2%/4%).
* physical domain:
   * upper body (12%)
   * lower body (18%).
* mental domain:
either a specified condition or any other mental or emotional condition that seriously interfered with everyday activities prevalent in about 10% of adults. 
The prevalence depended on the age:
Around 12% (65 yrs.+) or 9% (18-64) of people. 
Common symptoms can be seen in at least 16% of the adults, 7% being severe: 
   * depressed or anxious: ca 11%,
   * coping with stress: ca 8%,
   * trouble concentrating: ca 7%,
   * trouble getting along with others: 4%.
   
About 13% had difficulties with ADL and 10% with iADL.
Most adults have a disability in one domain only (53%):
* physical domain being most common (28%), followed by mental (14%) and communication domain (12%),
* women have most likely disability in physical (32%) and mental (14%) domains, while
* men have disabilities most likely in the communication domain (13%).

Adults with disabilities had a lower level of education, were less likely employed, learned less than people without disability even when employed, had a higher poverty rate, especially people with a severe disability, 

## The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012) Americans with Disabilities: 2010 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012) indicate in 2010 the percentage of people with disabilities to about 19%, 12% with severe disability and 4% needing assistance. 
They show that disabilities increase with age, as do severe disabilities and the need for personal assistance.
They point out that the aging of the baby/boomer cohort meat that a greater proportion of the population grew older and therefore in a group with higher risks of disability. 
They show differences in disability prevalence (any) depending on race:
Asians having the lowest rate (15%), Hispanics (18%), non-Hispanic Whites (18%) and Blacks (22%) - all numbers are age-adjusted.
The same ranking is valid for severe disability and needs assistance.

Prevalence depending for different domains:
* communication domain (15 yrs.+ / 65 yrs.+) (6%/18%):
   * difficulties seeing (3%/10%)
   * difficulties hearing (3%/11%)
   * difficulties having their speech understood (1%/2%).
* physical domain:
   * upper body (8%)
   * lower body (13%).
* mental domain:
about 6% of adults. 
Common symptoms can be seen in at least 4% of the adults: 
   * depressed or anxious: ca 3%,
   * coping with stress: ca 3%,
   * trouble concentrating: ca 2%,
   * trouble getting along with others: 1%.
   
About 4% had difficulties with ADL and 6% with iADL.
Most adults have a disability in one domain only (59%):
The physical domain is most common (81%), followed by mental (33%) and communication domain (30%),

Adults with disabilities were less likely employed, earned less than people without disability even when employed, had a higher poverty rate, especially people with a severe disability, 

## World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) World report on disability 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

* [1. Understanding disability](#1-understanding-disability)
* [2. Disability - a global picture](#2-disability-a-global-picture)

### 1. Understanding disability

[Over](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)

The World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) gives a general introduction in definitions and scope related to disability.

They descried the transition from an individua, medial model to a structural, social model, in which `people are viewed as being disabled by society rather than by their bodies`.
However, the authors follow the model adopted in the ICF, the `bio-psycho-social model`, in which functioning and disability is `a dynamic interaction between health conditions and contextual factors, both personal and environmental` including for example problems arising from a health condition.

```
[D]isability results from the interaction between persons with impairments and attitudinal and environmental barriers that hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others.
```

Problems with human functioning can be categorized in three inter-connected areas:
1. Impairments: problems in body function or alterations in body structure.
2. Activity limitations: difficulties in executing activities.
3. Participation restrictions: problem with involvement in any area of life.

Health conditions (diseases, injuries and disorder) can influence impairments and vice versa.
Disability arises from the interaction of health conditions and contextual factors:
* environmental factors: can be either facilitators or barriers.
* personal factors: can influence how much a person participates in society.

It also lists `a person's capacities to perform actions and the actual performance of those actions in real life`.

### 2. Disability - a global picture

[Over](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)

The World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) gives a general introduction in how to measure disability globally, and presents some estimates for the prevalence of disability.

Estimates differ widely. 
The WHO (2001) argues that the question design and reporting source can affect estimates.
For example, many developing countries only collect disability data through census and give only a narrow choice of impairments resulting in low disability prevalence rate.
Many developed countries record impairment, activity limitations and participation restriction resulting in higher disability prevalence.

They present prevalence estimates from 
* national surveys and censuses:
Surveys are difficult for comparisons because most developing countries collect data on a narrower set of impairments resulting in lower prevalence rates. 
Typically based on the Washington Group categorizations.
* the World Health Survey of 2002-2004:
a face-to-face household survey in a total of 70 countries of which 59 countries were used for estimation. 
The prevalence for 18 yrs.+ was ca 16%, with 12% in higher income countries and 18% in lower income countries.
Vulnerable groups (women, the poor, the elderly) had a higher rate of disability.
* the WHO Global Burden of Disease study, 2004:
They estimate that 19% of the world population have a disability, with ca 4% having a severe disability.
They also estimate of moderate and severe disability prevalence to be 11% higher for women than for men related to higher age-specific prevalence / greater number of older women in the population.

These are no definitive estimate.
WHO (2001) suggest to get more robust, comparable, and complete data sets.

They also list trends in health conditions associated with disability including infectious diseases, chronic conditions, and injuries.
The influence of demographics on disability.
Global ageing contributes to more disabilities.
The elderly have a higher risk of disability, and national populations are ageing.
In many countries, this ageing is associated with higher rates of survival to an older age and reduce fertility.
Since 1950, for example, the median age has increased: from 24 (1950), via 22 (1975) and 28 (2005) to an estimated 38 (2050).
These numbers are higher for high-income countries and lower for low- and middle-income countries.

They discuss the importance of environmental factors on disability including exposure to poor sanitation, malnutrition, lack of access to health care, changes caused by natural disasters of conflict situations.

They also point out that people with disabilities often have worse educational and labor market outcomes, and are more likely to be poorer than people without disabilities in both developing and developed countries.

They highlight costs related to disability.

Finally, they conclude that about 15% (WHS) / 19% (GBD) of the world population lives with disabilities.
Disability depends on many factors, including age, sex, stage of life, environmental risks, socioeconomic status, culture, and available resources.
They give recommendations for improving statistical data:
* Adapting the ICF
* Improving national disability statistics
* Improving the comparability of data
* Developing appropriate tools and fill the research gaps


## Loeb et al. (2008) Approaching the measurement of disability prevalence: The case of Zambia 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

Loeb et al. (2008) did something.
They found disabilities for the different Washington Groups categories as:
Vision 4.7%, Hearing 3.7%, Mobility 5.1%, Remembering 2.0%, Self-care 2.0%, and Communicating 2.1%.

## Svalund (2004) Funksjonshemmede i Europa 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

Svalund (2004) did something.

Commit message:

Summarized and wrote short introductionary paragraph for Loeb et al. (2008) Approaching the measurement of disability prevalence: The case of Zambia  - Included highlight comments of Loeb et al. (2008) pdf file.

UU-STAT.md, after:

# Tekster om statistikk

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som inneholder statistikk rundt universell utforming og mennesker med nedsatt funksjonsevne:
* [__United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019)__ Disability: Prevalence and Impact - Syrian Arab Republic](#united-nations-high-commissioner-for-refugees-unhcr-2019-disability-prevalence-and-impact-syrian-arab-republic)
* [__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018)__ Americans with Disabilities: 2014](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2018-americans-with-disabilities-2014)
* [__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012)__ Americans with Disabilities: 2010](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2012-americans-with-disabilities-2010)
* [__World Health Organization (WHO) (2011)__ World report on disability](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)
* [__Loeb et al.__ (2008) Approaching the measurement of disability prevalence: The case of Zambia](#loeb-et-al-2008-approaching-the-measurement-of-disability-prevalence-the-case-of-zambia)
* [__Svalund (2004)__ Funksjonshemmede i Europa](#svalund-2004-funksjonshemmede-i-europa)

## General

[__United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019)__](#united-nations-high-commissioner-for-refugees-unhcr-2019-disability-prevalence-and-impact-syrian-arab-republic) measure the prevalence of people with disabilities (around 27%) in Syria by area, age group and population type.
[__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018)__](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2018-americans-with-disabilities-2014) indicate that  in 2014 about 27% of the population has some sort of disability, with 18% having a severe disability and 10% needing assistance. 
They subdivide disabilities according to categories of communication (seeing around 5%, hearing around 7%, and having their speech understood around 2%), physical problem (upper body around 12%, lower body around 18%), and mental around 10%.
They found that 53% have a disability in one domain only.
[__The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012)__](#the-united-states-census-bureau-usbc-2012-americans-with-disabilities-2010) indicate that in 2010 about 19% of the population has some sort of disability, with 12% having a severe disability and 4% needing assistance. 
They subdivide disabilities according to categories of communication (around 6%, seeing around 3%, hearing around 3%, and having their speech understood around 1%), physical problem (upper body around 8%, lower body around 13%), and mental around 6%.
They found that 59% have a disability in one domain only.
[__World Health Organization (WHO) (2011)__](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability) (1) give a general introduction in definitions and scope related to disability.
They (2) give a general introduction in how to measure disability globally, and presents some estimates for the prevalence of disability.
Finally, they conclude that about 15% (WHS) / 19% (GBD) of the world population lives with disabilities.
[__Loeb et al.__ (2008)](#loeb-et-al-2008-approaching-the-measurement-of-disability-prevalence-the-case-of-zambia) show that prevalence estimates of disability change depending on the definitioon or aspect of disability being target, as well on the intended purpose fro collecting disability statistics.
They conduct a study that puts disability prevalence in Zambia to 18% to 13%.
[__Svalund (2004)__](#svalund-2004-funksjonshemmede-i-europa) did something.

## United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) (2019) Disability: Prevalence and Impact - Syrian Arab Republic 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

UNHCR (2019) measure the prevalence of people with disabilities by area, age group and population type.
They show that about 27% of the population in Syria live with disabilities compared to 15% of the world population.
They argue that disability is more present in developing and crisis-affected countries.

They show that the percentage of people with disabilities increases significantly from 40 years on.
(They show individual age groups in five-year intervals.)
They found that women were generally slightly less likely to have a disability than men.
They found that people with disabilities are more likely to be married or widowed than people without disabilities.
Women are especially likely to be widowed.

They found prevalence of different types of disabilities following the categorization proposed by the Washington Group (2017): M (17%), V (ca. 13%), S-C (ca. 8%), H (ca. 7%), Cog (ca. 4%), Com (ca. 4%).

## The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018) Americans with Disabilities: 2014 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2018) indicate that in 2014 the percentage of people with disabilities to about 27 %, 18% with severe disability and 10% needing assistance. 
They show that disabilities increase with age:
Until 18 yrs. only 17%, from 18 yrs. 30%, from 65 yrs. 58%, and from 75 yrs. 70% have disabilities.
They show differences in disability (any) prevalence depending on race:
Blacks (around 35%), non-Hispanic Whites (32%), Hispanics (25%) and Asians (20%).
The same ranking is valid for severe disability and needs assistance.

Prevalence depending for different domains:
* communication domain (18 yrs.+ / 65 yrs.+):
   * difficulties seeing (5%/9%)
   * difficulties hearing (7%/20%)
   * difficulties having their speech understood (2%/4%).
* physical domain:
   * upper body (12%)
   * lower body (18%).
* mental domain:
either a specified condition or any other mental or emotional condition that seriously interfered with everyday activities prevalent in about 10% of adults. 
The prevalence depended on the age:
Around 12% (65 yrs.+) or 9% (18-64) of people. 
Common symptoms can be seen in at least 16% of the adults, 7% being severe: 
   * depressed or anxious: ca 11%,
   * coping with stress: ca 8%,
   * trouble concentrating: ca 7%,
   * trouble getting along with others: 4%.
   
About 13% had difficulties with ADL and 10% with iADL.
Most adults have a disability in one domain only (53%):
* physical domain being most common (28%), followed by mental (14%) and communication domain (12%),
* women have most likely disability in physical (32%) and mental (14%) domains, while
* men have disabilities most likely in the communication domain (13%).

Adults with disabilities had a lower level of education, were less likely employed, learned less than people without disability even when employed, had a higher poverty rate, especially people with a severe disability, 

## The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012) Americans with Disabilities: 2010 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

The United States Census Bureau (USBC) (2012) indicate in 2010 the percentage of people with disabilities to about 19%, 12% with severe disability and 4% needing assistance. 
They show that disabilities increase with age, as do severe disabilities and the need for personal assistance.
They point out that the aging of the baby/boomer cohort meat that a greater proportion of the population grew older and therefore in a group with higher risks of disability. 
They show differences in disability prevalence (any) depending on race:
Asians having the lowest rate (15%), Hispanics (18%), non-Hispanic Whites (18%) and Blacks (22%) - all numbers are age-adjusted.
The same ranking is valid for severe disability and needs assistance.

Prevalence depending for different domains:
* communication domain (15 yrs.+ / 65 yrs.+) (6%/18%):
   * difficulties seeing (3%/10%)
   * difficulties hearing (3%/11%)
   * difficulties having their speech understood (1%/2%).
* physical domain:
   * upper body (8%)
   * lower body (13%).
* mental domain:
about 6% of adults. 
Common symptoms can be seen in at least 4% of the adults: 
   * depressed or anxious: ca 3%,
   * coping with stress: ca 3%,
   * trouble concentrating: ca 2%,
   * trouble getting along with others: 1%.
   
About 4% had difficulties with ADL and 6% with iADL.
Most adults have a disability in one domain only (59%):
The physical domain is most common (81%), followed by mental (33%) and communication domain (30%),

Adults with disabilities were less likely employed, earned less than people without disability even when employed, had a higher poverty rate, especially people with a severe disability, 

## World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) World report on disability 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

* [1. Understanding disability](#1-understanding-disability)
* [2. Disability - a global picture](#2-disability-a-global-picture)

### 1. Understanding disability

[Over](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)

The World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) gives a general introduction in definitions and scope related to disability.

They descried the transition from an individua, medial model to a structural, social model, in which `people are viewed as being disabled by society rather than by their bodies`.
However, the authors follow the model adopted in the ICF, the `bio-psycho-social model`, in which functioning and disability is `a dynamic interaction between health conditions and contextual factors, both personal and environmental` including for example problems arising from a health condition.

```
[D]isability results from the interaction between persons with impairments and attitudinal and environmental barriers that hinder their full and effective participation in society on an equal basis with others.
```

Problems with human functioning can be categorized in three inter-connected areas:
1. Impairments: problems in body function or alterations in body structure.
2. Activity limitations: difficulties in executing activities.
3. Participation restrictions: problem with involvement in any area of life.

Health conditions (diseases, injuries and disorder) can influence impairments and vice versa.
Disability arises from the interaction of health conditions and contextual factors:
* environmental factors: can be either facilitators or barriers.
* personal factors: can influence how much a person participates in society.

It also lists `a person's capacities to perform actions and the actual performance of those actions in real life`.

### 2. Disability - a global picture

[Over](#world-health-organization-who-2011-world-report-on-disability)

The World Health Organization (WHO) (2011) gives a general introduction in how to measure disability globally, and presents some estimates for the prevalence of disability.

Estimates differ widely. 
The WHO (2001) argues that the question design and reporting source can affect estimates.
For example, many developing countries only collect disability data through census and give only a narrow choice of impairments resulting in low disability prevalence rate.
Many developed countries record impairment, activity limitations and participation restriction resulting in higher disability prevalence.

They present prevalence estimates from 
* national surveys and censuses:
Surveys are difficult for comparisons because most developing countries collect data on a narrower set of impairments resulting in lower prevalence rates. 
Typically based on the Washington Group categorizations.
* the World Health Survey of 2002-2004:
a face-to-face household survey in a total of 70 countries of which 59 countries were used for estimation. 
The prevalence for 18 yrs.+ was ca 16%, with 12% in higher income countries and 18% in lower income countries.
Vulnerable groups (women, the poor, the elderly) had a higher rate of disability.
* the WHO Global Burden of Disease study, 2004:
They estimate that 19% of the world population have a disability, with ca 4% having a severe disability.
They also estimate of moderate and severe disability prevalence to be 11% higher for women than for men related to higher age-specific prevalence / greater number of older women in the population.

These are no definitive estimate.
WHO (2001) suggest to get more robust, comparable, and complete data sets.

They also list trends in health conditions associated with disability including infectious diseases, chronic conditions, and injuries.
The influence of demographics on disability.
Global ageing contributes to more disabilities.
The elderly have a higher risk of disability, and national populations are ageing.
In many countries, this ageing is associated with higher rates of survival to an older age and reduce fertility.
Since 1950, for example, the median age has increased: from 24 (1950), via 22 (1975) and 28 (2005) to an estimated 38 (2050).
These numbers are higher for high-income countries and lower for low- and middle-income countries.

They discuss the importance of environmental factors on disability including exposure to poor sanitation, malnutrition, lack of access to health care, changes caused by natural disasters of conflict situations.

They also point out that people with disabilities often have worse educational and labor market outcomes, and are more likely to be poorer than people without disabilities in both developing and developed countries.

They highlight costs related to disability.

Finally, they conclude that about 15% (WHS) / 19% (GBD) of the world population lives with disabilities.
Disability depends on many factors, including age, sex, stage of life, environmental risks, socioeconomic status, culture, and available resources.
They give recommendations for improving statistical data:
* Adapting the ICF
* Improving national disability statistics
* Improving the comparability of data
* Developing appropriate tools and fill the research gaps


## Loeb et al. (2008) Approaching the measurement of disability prevalence: The case of Zambia 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

Loeb et al. (2008) conducted a representative survey of living conditions in Zambia using the categorization of the WAshington Group.
They show that the prevalence of disability changes depending on the definitioon or aspect of disability being target, as well on the intended purpose fro collecting disability statistics.

They point out that prevalence of disabilities differe strongly between previous research (f.ex. the Zambia 1990 Census, or the Zambia 200 census), and highlight that there is no single definitions of disability. 
They use the categorization of the wAshington Group instead based on functional limitations rather than impairments.

They found a disability prevalence of about 18% for "at least some difficulty on a least one", and 13% for "at least some difficutly on at least two" of the six domains. 
This shows that prevalance changes depending on how people define disability.
They found disabilities for the different Washington Groups categories as:
Mobility 5.1%, Vision 4.7%, Hearing 3.7%,  Remembering 2.0%, Self-care 2.0%, and Communicating 2.1%.

Loeb et al. (2008) point out that the term `disability` carries a highly negative connotation in Zambia.
Moreover, disability is often interpreted to some unspoken cultural norm.

They define three purposes for the appropriate definition of disability used in a survey:
1. Monitoring the level of functioning in a population:
To improve understanding and evaluate interventions.
2. Designing service provision:
To design and implement programs requiring more extensive information.
3. Assessing the equalization of opportunity:
To assess the impact of having a disability on individuals and their families.

## Svalund (2004) Funksjonshemmede i Europa 

[Up](#tekster-om-statistikk)

Svalund (2004) did something.
