UU-SAFU.md, before:

# Tekster som handler om samfunnsmessige aspekter av universell utforming (UU-ASS)

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som handler om samfunnsmessige aspekter av universell utforming:

* [Presentation on September 8th, 2020](#presentation-by-george-anthony-giannoumis-on-september-8th-2020)
* [Giannoumis (2019) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States](#giannoumis-2019-implementing-web-accessibility-policy-case-studies-of-the-united-kingdom-norway-and-the-united-states)
* [Giannoumis & Stein (2019) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens](#giannoumis-stein-2019-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens)
* [Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web)
* [Skjerve et al. (2016) An Intersectional Persepective on web Accessibility](skjerve-et-al-2016-an-intersectional-persepective-on-web-ccessibility)

## General

[__Giannoumis et al. (2019)__](#giannoumis-2019-implementing-web-accessibility-policy-case-studies-of-the-united-kingdom-norway-and-the-united-states) did something.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2019)__](#giannoumis-stein-2019-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens) advocate equal access and use of ICT by (1) accounting to human diversity, (2) eliminating barriers to accessibility and usability, and (3) increasing participation in the design and development process.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2017)__](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web) discuss the interaction between laws and policies to ensure web accessibility and technological protection measures (TPM) to protect copyrights and highlight the importance of the Marrakesh Treaty to bridge this gap.
[__Skjerve et al. (2016)__](skjerve-et-al-2016-an-intersectional-persepective-on-web-ccessibility) analyze the social aspects of universal design on people experiencing multiple forms of discrimination. 
They argue that developer should also consider experiences of hostility to support equal access to information and communication for everyone. 

## Presentation by George Anthony Giannoumis on September 8th, 2020

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass) |
[Kilde](https://www.oslomet.no/om/ansatt/gagian/) |
[Contact](@george.a.giannoumis@oslomet.no)

Digital divide.
Sustainable development goals of UD.
Principles of UD for the information society:
* Social equality
* Human diversity
* Accessibility and usability
* Participatory process
    * individual
    * environment
    * activity

## Giannoumis (2019) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

## Giannoumis & Stein (2019) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Giannoumis & Stein (2019b) introduce three new principles for promoting equal access and use of ICT that puts euqality and non-discrimination as the guiding principles of UD. 
Universal design should:
1. account for human diversity across all socially disadvatanged groups including people facing multiple forms of discrimination,
2. eliminate barriers to both accessibility and usability,
3. promote the participation of user in the design and development of ICT.
They highlight the importance of regarding UD as as process rather than an outcome.

## Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Giannoumis et al. (2017) explore the interaction between laws and plicis to preserve and promote the use of technological protection measures (TPMs) to protect copyrighted digital content, and laws and plicies aiming at ensuring web accessbility for people with sensory and cognitive disabilities. They emphasize that the Marrakesh Treaty bridges the gap between accessibility requirements and copyright demands by obligating states to ensure that TPMS do not prevent individuals with print disabilities to create, use and share accessible formats withou a license form the copyright owner.

## Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass) |
[Kilde](https://brill.com/view/journals/hrlr/8/1/article-p38_38.xml)

Universal design in the information society shal promote equal access and use of technology in three ways:
1. By accounting for human diversity.
2. By eliminating barriers to accessbiility and usability.
3. By augmenting participation.

## Skjerve et al. (2016) An Intersectional Persepective on Web Accessibility

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Skjerve et al. (2016) investigate social barriers that might limit the participation of people with disabilities by analyzing use and experience of people with multiple forms of discrimination (gender, ability, race).
They discover that marginalized groups emphasize and appreciate the social aspects of the web and the freedom on non-disclosure, at the same time they report to encounter and expect oppressive content online (especially in the comment sections as `house of horror`), and mention reactions (self-exclusion, short lived irritaiton) coping strategies when being confronted with oppresive content (leaving the page, avoiding pages, etc.).
They point out that some of the coping strategies contain elements of victim blaming ("you should have known better", "what did you expect?"), and show how offensive content can limit access to parts of the web that are of public interest.
They make an argument for encouraging developers to consider possible content and finding alternative ways to represent comments while no infringing on the right to free speech.

Commit message:

Summarized •Giannoumis (2019) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States.

UU-SAFU.md, after:

# Tekster som handler om samfunnsmessige aspekter av universell utforming (UU-ASS)

[Home](./README.md)

Det fins noen tekster som handler om samfunnsmessige aspekter av universell utforming:

* [Presentation on September 8th, 2020](#presentation-by-george-anthony-giannoumis-on-september-8th-2020)
* [Giannoumis (2019) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States](#giannoumis-2019-implementing-web-accessibility-policy-case-studies-of-the-united-kingdom-norway-and-the-united-states)
* [Giannoumis & Stein (2019) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens](#giannoumis-stein-2019-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens)
* [Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web)
* [Skjerve et al. (2016) An Intersectional Persepective on web Accessibility](skjerve-et-al-2016-an-intersectional-persepective-on-web-ccessibility)

## General

[__Giannoumis (2019)__](#giannoumis-2019-implementing-web-accessibility-policy-case-studies-of-the-united-kingdom-norway-and-the-united-states) shows how social instituions affect web accessibility by structuring participationa and constraining decision making by limiting predefined options and promoting a default action. 
He also shows how legal obligations are implemented in practice by using a system of audit and certification.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2019)__](#giannoumis-stein-2019-conceptualizing-universal-design-for-the-information-society-through-a-universal-human-rights-lens) advocate equal access and use of ICT by (1) accounting to human diversity, (2) eliminating barriers to accessibility and usability, and (3) increasing participation in the design and development process.
[__Giannoumis et al. (2017)__](#giannoumis-et-al-2017-web-accessibility-and-technology-protection-measures-harmonizing-the-rights-of-persons-with-cognitive-disabilities-and-copyright-protections-on-the-web) discuss the interaction between laws and policies to ensure web accessibility and technological protection measures (TPM) to protect copyrights and highlight the importance of the Marrakesh Treaty to bridge this gap.
[__Skjerve et al. (2016)__](skjerve-et-al-2016-an-intersectional-persepective-on-web-ccessibility) analyze the social aspects of universal design on people experiencing multiple forms of discrimination. 
They argue that developer should also consider experiences of hostility to support equal access to information and communication for everyone. 

## Presentation by George Anthony Giannoumis on September 8th, 2020

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass) |
[Kilde](https://www.oslomet.no/om/ansatt/gagian/) |
[Contact](@george.a.giannoumis@oslomet.no)

Digital divide.
Sustainable development goals of UD.
Principles of UD for the information society:
* Social equality
* Human diversity
* Accessibility and usability
* Participatory process
    * individual
    * environment
    * activity

## Giannoumis (2019) Implementing Web Accessibility Policy. Case Studies of the United Kingdom, Norway, and the United States

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Giannoumis (2019) claims that social institutions affect web accessibility by structuring participation and constraining decision making.
He states that social institutions have changed due to both legal and social reasons.
He points out that social institutions of constraint web accessibility by limiting the options to predetermined sets or by promoting a default action.
Finally, he emphasizes that policy actors have implemented legal obligations in practice by using a system of audit and certification.


## Giannoumis & Stein (2019) Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society Through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Giannoumis & Stein (2019) introduce three new principles for promoting equal access and use of ICT that puts euqality and non-discrimination as the guiding principles of UD. 
Universal design should:
1. account for human diversity across all socially disadvatanged groups including people facing multiple forms of discrimination,
2. eliminate barriers to both accessibility and usability,
3. promote the participation of user in the design and development of ICT.
They highlight the importance of regarding UD as as process rather than an outcome.

## Giannoumis et al. (2017) Web accessibility and technology protection measures: Harmonizing the rights of persons with cognitive disabilities and copyright protections on the web

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Giannoumis et al. (2017) explore the interaction between laws and plicis to preserve and promote the use of technological protection measures (TPMs) to protect copyrighted digital content, and laws and plicies aiming at ensuring web accessbility for people with sensory and cognitive disabilities. They emphasize that the Marrakesh Treaty bridges the gap between accessibility requirements and copyright demands by obligating states to ensure that TPMS do not prevent individuals with print disabilities to create, use and share accessible formats withou a license form the copyright owner.

## Conceptualizing Universal Design for the Information Society through a Universal Human Rights Lens

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass) |
[Kilde](https://brill.com/view/journals/hrlr/8/1/article-p38_38.xml)

Universal design in the information society shal promote equal access and use of technology in three ways:
1. By accounting for human diversity.
2. By eliminating barriers to accessbiility and usability.
3. By augmenting participation.

## Skjerve et al. (2016) An Intersectional Persepective on Web Accessibility

[Up](#tekster-som-handler-om-samfunnsmessige-aspekter-av-universell-utforming-uu-ass)

Skjerve et al. (2016) investigate social barriers that might limit the participation of people with disabilities by analyzing use and experience of people with multiple forms of discrimination (gender, ability, race).
They discover that marginalized groups emphasize and appreciate the social aspects of the web and the freedom on non-disclosure, at the same time they report to encounter and expect oppressive content online (especially in the comment sections as `house of horror`), and mention reactions (self-exclusion, short lived irritaiton) coping strategies when being confronted with oppresive content (leaving the page, avoiding pages, etc.).
They point out that some of the coping strategies contain elements of victim blaming ("you should have known better", "what did you expect?"), and show how offensive content can limit access to parts of the web that are of public interest.
They make an argument for encouraging developers to consider possible content and finding alternative ways to represent comments while no infringing on the right to free speech.
